feat(docs): improve HPA autoscaling docs (#5953)
SeldonIO/seldon-core: docs-gb/kubernetes/hpa-rps-autoscaling.md

        averageValue: 3
```

> In the two HPA manifests above, the scaling metric is exactly the same, and uses the exact same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding HPA manifests, the scaling metric is exactly the same, and uses the exact same
```
Don't use directional language to orient the reader, such as above, below, or right-hand side. This type of language doesn't work well for accessibility or for localization reasons.

Don't use directional language to refer to a position in a document. Instead, use earlier, preceding, or following.

Recommended: In the preceding diagram, clients run jobs on multi-team or single-team clusters.

Not recommended: In the diagram above, clients run jobs on multi-team or single-team clusters.

parameters: this is to ensure that both the Models and the Servers are scaled up/down at
approximately the same time. Small variations in the scale-up time are expected because each HPA
samples the metrics independently, at regular intervals.

{% hint style="info" %}
If a Model gets scaled up slightly before its corresponding Server, the model is currently
marked with the condition ModelReady "Status: False" with a "ScheduleFailed" message until new
Server replicas become available. However, the existing replicas of that model remain available
and will continue to serve inference load.
{% endhint %}

In order to ensure similar scaling behaviour between Models and Servers, the number of
`minReplicas` and `maxReplicas`, as well as any other configured scaling policies should be kept
in sync across the HPA for the model and the server.

#### Details on custom metrics of type Object

> The HPA manifests above use metrics of type "Object" that fetch the data used in scaling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HPA manifests use metrics of type "Object" that fetch the data used in scaling
```

decisions by querying k8s metrics associated with a particular k8s object.  The endpoints that

> HPA uses for fetching those metrics are the same ones that we tested in the previous section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HPA uses for fetching those metrics are the same ones that were tested in the previous section
```

> using `kubectl get --raw ...`. Because we have configured the Prometheus Adapter to expose those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using `kubectl get --raw ...`. Because you have configured the Prometheus Adapter to expose those
```
https://developers.google.com/style/person

k8s metrics based on queries to Prometheus, a mapping exists between the information contained
in the HPA Object metric definition and the actual query that is executed against Prometheus.
This section aims to give more details on how this mapping works.

In our example, the `metric.name:infer_rps` gets mapped to the `seldon_model_infer_total` metric
on the prometheus side, based on the configuration in the `name` section of the Prometheus
Adapter ConfigMap. The prometheus metric name is then used to fill in the `<<.Series>>` template
in the query (`metricsQuery` in the same ConfigMap).

Then, the information provided in the `describedObject` is used within the Prometheus query to

> select the right aggregations of the metric. For the RPS metric we have used to scale the Model

Author: ```suggestion
select the right aggregations of the metric. For the RPS metric used to scale the Model
```

> select the right aggregations of the metric. For the RPS metric we have used to scale the Model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
select the right aggregations of the metric. For the RPS metric scale the Model
```

Author: A different change is needed here, as now the sentence no longer makes sense. Will rephrase to "For the RPS metric used to scale the Model"

used as part of the `<<.LabelMatchers>>`. For example:

* If the described object is `{ kind: Namespace, name: seldon-mesh }`, then the Prometheus
query template configured in our example would be transformed into:

```
sum by (namespace) (
  rate (
    seldon_model_infer_total{namespace="seldon-mesh"}[1m]
  )
)
```

* If the described object is not a namespace (for example, `{ kind: Pod, name: mlserver-0 }`)
then the query will be passed the label describing the object, alongside an additional label
identifying the namespace where the HPA manifest resides in.:

```
sum by (pod) (
  rate (
    seldon_model_infer_total{pod="mlserver-0", namespace="seldon-mesh"}[1m]
  )
)
```

For the `target` of the Object metric you **must** use a `type` of `AverageValue`. The value
given in `averageValue` represents the per replica RPS scaling threshold of the `scaleTargetRef`
object (either a Model or a Server in our case), with the target number of replicas being
computed by HPA according to the following formula:

$$\texttt{targetReplicas} = \frac{\texttt{infer\_rps}}{\texttt{thresholdPerReplicaRPS}}$$

{% hint style="info" %}

> Attempting other target types will not work under the current Seldon Core v2 setup, because they

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attempting other target types does not work under the current Seldon Core 2 setup, because they
```
https://developers.google.com/style/tense

use the number of active Pods associated with the Model CR (i.e. the associated Server pods) in
the `targetReplicas` computation. However, this also means that this set of pods becomes "owned"
by the Model HPA. Once a pod is owned by a given HPA it is not available for other HPAs to use,
so we would no longer be able to scale the Server CRs using HPA.
{% endhint %}

#### Advanced settings

*   Filtering metrics by additional labels on the prometheus metric

    The prometheus metric from which the model RPS is computed has the following labels:

    ```yaml
    seldon_model_infer_total{
        code="200", 
        container="agent", 
        endpoint="metrics", 
        instance="10.244.0.39:9006", 
        job="seldon-mesh/agent", 
        method_type="rest", 
        model="irisa0", 
        model_internal="irisa0_1", 
        namespace="seldon-mesh", 
        pod="mlserver-0", 
        server="mlserver", 
        server_replica="0"
    }
    ```

>     If we wanted the scaling metric to be computed based on inferences with a particular value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you want the scaling metric to be computed based on inferences with a particular value
```

>     for any of those labels, we can add this in the HPA metric config, as in the example below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    for any of those labels, you can add this in the HPA metric config, as in the example
```
